---
title: Pure Paste
subtitle: Paste as plain text by default
date: 2022-03-02
platforms:
  - macOS
app_store_app_id: 1611378436
mac_app_store_url: https://apps.apple.com/app/id1611378436
---

Pure Paste lets you paste as plain text by default. It sits in the menu bar and clears formatting (fonts, colors, bold, links, tables, etc.) from the text you copy. However, it does not touch unrelated content like files, images, etc. It also ignores content copied from password managers.

You can also choose to manually clear formatting whenever needed instead of automatically.

<br>

<h3 id="faq">Frequently Asked Questions</h3>

#### I have a feature request, bug report, or some feedback

[Send it here.](https://sindresorhus.com/feedback/?product=Pure%20Paste&referrer=Website-FAQ)

#### The app does not show up in the menu bar

macOS hides menu bar apps when there is no space left in the menu bar. This is a common problem on MacBooks with a notch. Try quitting some menu bar apps to free up space. If this does not solve it, try quitting Bartender if you have it installed.

You may also have enabled the “Hide menu bar icon” preference, which hides the menu bar icon. Launch the app again to reveal the menu bar item for 5 seconds.

<a id="clear-formatting-problem"></a>
#### The app clears formatting when it shouldn't or doesn't clear formatting when it should

[Let me know.](https://sindresorhus.com/feedback/?product=Pure%20Paste&referrer=Website-FAQ) I will fix it quickly, if possible.

There are some cases I cannot fix though:
- The Pages app pastes a table. Pages pastes any text with multiple lines as a table. This is not a problem with Pure Paste and also not something I can fix. You can complain to Apple about the behavior [here](https://www.apple.com/feedback/pages.html).

#### Why not just use the `Paste and Match Style` menu item or `⌥⇧⌘V`?

- That menu item is not available in all apps.
- The keyboard shortcut is hard to remember and type.
- In some apps, like Chrome, the keyboard shortcut is different.
- This app can exclude certain apps, preserve links, and also remove tracking parameters from URLs.

#### Why not just remap the `Paste and Match Style` keyboard shortcut to `⌘V`?

- That menu item is not available in all apps.
- In some apps, like Word, the menu item has a diffent label, which requires a separate mapping.
- This app can exclude certain apps, preserve links, and also remove tracking parameters from URLs.

#### What are tracking parameters and why would I want to remove them?

Removing tracking parameters improve privacy and also make URLs more aesthetically pleasing. Tracking parameters are used by many websites to track your browsing activity across websites. [Read more.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UTM_parameters)

Before: `https://foo.com?utm_content=buffercf3b2&utm_source=snapchat.com`\
After: `https://foo.com`

#### Can you add a setting to preserve bold and italic?

In short, no. To preserve bold and italic, the app has to preserve the font too, and by preserving the font, it has to set a font name and size. This means the text will not match the destination formatting. Instead, for example, in Word, you can copy with formatting and select “Paste and Match Formatting”, which correctly preserves bold and italic while clearing color and sizes.

<a id="office-apps"></a>
#### Excel, Word, and PowerPoint are missing some actions in “Paste Options”

Pure Paste works by modifying the clipboard. Office hides most of the “Paste Options” actions if the clipboard is modified.

The solution is to either:
1. Exclude the Office apps in the Pure Paste preferences.
1. Turn off “Automatically Clear Formatting” and instead set a keyboard shortcut in the preferences. That way the clipboard stays unmodified until you use the keyboard shortcut to clear & paste.

#### The app does not clear formatting when copy-pasting an image inside Google Docs

Web apps do not follow the standard clipboard conventions that desktop apps do. When you copy an image in Google Docs, it just puts a bunch of HTML code on the clipboard. Pure Paste cannot easily know it's an image you copied.

#### The app does not preserve links when pasting into Google Docs even with the “Preserve links” setting enabled

There is a [problem with Google Docs](https://webapps.stackexchange.com/questions/69248/is-there-a-way-to-paste-rtf-text-into-google-document) where it strips links from rich text content. It happens even without Pure Paste. Web apps are generally bad at following platform conventions.

#### Does it respect [nspasteboard.org](http://nspasteboard.org) conventions?

Yes, it ignores concealed (passwords), transient, and auto-generated content. It also adds the `org.nspasteboard.AutoGeneratedType` identifier when putting the plain text content on the clipboard.

#### Why is this free without ads?

I just enjoy making Mac apps. Consider leaving a nice review on the App Store.

#### Where can I find the changelog?

Go [here](https://apps.apple.com/app/id1611378436) and click “Version History”.

#### Can you localize the app into my language?

I don't have any immediate plans to localize the app.
